# Script

### Section 1 - Basic
The simplest way to make H~2~ gas is by a basic electrolysis experiment; no catalyst and using KOH as an electrolyte.
KOH is a good choice because it has a high charge mobility, and has the highest solubility of the group I and II hydroxides.
There are two half reactions proceeding here; the hydrogen is generated by reduction at the cathode and the oxygen is made via oxidation at the anode.
Since this has a negative E0cell its not going to be a spoltaneous process, which is why this is electrolytic rather than a galvanic cell; the electricity is doing work to break the H-O bonds.
This process is quite energetically expensive and in practice the required voltage can be much greater, and we can do better.

### Section 2 - Catalysis
Catalysis can help this process along a lot, and generally they focus on improving the rate of the oxidation reaction. 
Oxidation is slower because the O2 gas that we're making is a triplet ground state and the water's molecular orbitals need to go through a spin inversion so that O2 can be made efficently.
Spin orbit coupling isnt the only effect at play which lowers the rate but it is definitely one of the most important ones.
Nickel-Iron catalysts are a good choice for this kind of catalysis, and ive included a figure of the surface of this catalyst as seen by a scanning electron microscope.

### Section 3 - Why we want to do this
The reasons that we might want to be able to generate hydrogen from water are fairly single minded - hydrogen is a great fuel source.
When its generated from water and then recombined with oxygen to create water it has acted as a highly efficent energy storage molecule, with no nasty byproducts.

### Section 4 - Fuel cells
The reaction which occurs in a fuel cell is quite simply the reverse of the electrolytic reaction to create hydrogen, except now it is a spontaneous galvanic cell.
So if we look at a proton exchange membrane fuel cell, H~2~ gas enters the cell at the site of the anode and is oxidised to H+; the anode collects electrons pretty much.
Then the protons in solution can now travel through the membrane towards the cathode.
At the cathode, oxygen from the atmosphere combines with the hydrogen ions and electrons supplied in a recduction reaction to create water.
And again there's a figure of how the cell works.
